>> Speaker 1: All right, our next topic
to dive into, this is from ES6 LAN.
So these have been in the language now for
a good three to four years.
We're gonna talk about iterators and
generators.
They flow well together,
specifically generators are gonna give us
a declarative way of creating iterators.
So, what do we mean by an iterator?
What is that iterator pattern?
Well basically, whenever you
have some data source, and I'm
gonna use heavy air quotes here because
data source doesn't have to be a database.
It can just be some value like an array.
But anything that is a data source,
if you would like to consume the values
in that data source one at a time.
One of the most common ways to do
that is called the iterator pattern.
Essentially you construct
a controller that gives you a view
of that data source and
it presents values one value at a time.
You do that by constructing an object and
then calling .next over and over and
over again.
And every time you call .next, you get
back the next value from that data source.
So, to consume a data source
all the way to it's completion,
you would essentially do kind of a loop
and just keep calling .next over and
over and over again until
you've got all the values out.
Now why this matters to JavaScript is
not just for normal data structures,
but in ES6, they took all of
the basic built-in data value types
that exist in the language and
they made them iterable.
So an iterable is something
that can be iterated over.
Let's take a look, you could talk about
a string value like quote Hello, or
you could talk at about an array
that had a set of characters in it.
And in both cases, the string and
the array or what we call iterable,
meaning you can construct an iterator
to consume their constituent values.
Line 4 you see I'm constructing
an iterator, looks a little strange
I'm calling this symbol.iterator
which is this special value that
finds a location on the string object and
produces an iterator from it.
So line 4 you see them accessing the
special metal location of the object, and
then I'm invoking it as a function, and
that gives me my iterator instance it1.
Do the same thing with the world array,
and
I get another iterator back called it2.
Now you see I can call it1.next and
I get back what is referred
to as an iterator result.
And an iterator results is just
an object with two properties on it,
one of them is the value property,
the other one is the done property.
Value of course is the value that is being
iterated out and done is a Boolean and
it tells you if there's
anything more to iterate.
So when I call it1.next
the first time on line 7,
I get the character H out of the string.
And if I call it again, I get e and
then l and then l and then o.
And you'll notice line 11,
it still says done false.
That's because the iterator protocol is
that the way that you know that there's
nothing else to consume is that you
iterate past the end of the data source.
You get back a value undefined,
and then it says done true.
It never throws an error,
it just gives you value,
undefined, done true, and
then you know it's done.
And even you kept calling .next over and
over and over again, from that point
forward, you're just gonna keep getting
back value undefined done true.
And so I can do that with a string and
I can do that with an array.
As a matter of fact, almost all the data
structures that you work with in your
JavaScript program are now iterables and
you can iterate over them.
This is ugly in manual, but there are some
really nice ways of iterating that we'll
look at in the next slide.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question.
>> Speaker 1: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Can you go backwards?
>> Speaker 1: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: No,
can you go backwards in an iterator?
>> Speaker 1: I'm sorry,
[LAUGH] can you backwards in an iterator?
The iterator protocol does
not support going backwards,
it's only a forwards thing.
If you wanted to make your own
custom extension on that protocol,
you could of course.
Basically, have your own iterator
that gives values out in reverse,
and then somebody would
keep calling .next, but
they would be consuming
something in reverse.
So, like you could make
something like that for
an array that iterated it out in reverse.
But the protocol, or the interface itself
would still be .next, .next, .next, .next.
Yeah, and we'll look at making our own
custom iterators here in just a moment